# Programming in C and C++
This repository contains the solutions to the assignments of Programming in C and C++ Course, Fall 2022, at Constructor University (previously known as Jacobs University Breme).

# Course Overview
This course offers an introduction to programming using the programming languages C and C++. After a short overview of the program development cycle (editing, preprocessing, compiling, linking, executing), the module presents first the basics of C programming. Fundamental imperative programming concepts such as variables, loops, and function calls are introduced in a hands-on manner. Afterwards, basic data structures like multidimensional arrays, structures, and pointers are introduced and dynamically allocated multidimensional arrays and linked lists and trees are used for solving simple practical problems. The relationship between pointers and arrays, pointers and structures, and pointers and functions are described and illustrated using examples that also introduce recursive functions, file handling and dynamic memory allocation.

The module afterwards introduces basic concepts of object-oriented programming languages using the programming language C++ in a hands-on manner. Concepts such as classes and objects, data abstractions, and information hiding are introduced. C++ mechanisms for defining and using objects, methods, and operators are introduced and the relevance of constructors, copy constructors, and destructors for dynamically created objects is explained. Finally, concepts such as inheritance, polymorphism, virtual functions, and overloading are introduced. The learned concepts have to be applied by solving programming problems.
